---
layout: post
title: 'Thoughts on Why We Sleep'
---

What if I told you there was a pill that boosts your overall cardiovascular
health, increases the strength of your immune system, reduces the risk of
neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease,significantly enhances your
memory and cognitive abilities, sparks creativity, and improves your mood? It
would be the most popular pill on the market. Well, what if I told you that you
can capture all of those benefits, not by ingesting a pill, but instead by
consistently getting enough high quality sleep every night?

Matthew Walker, in his book **Why We Sleep**, actually starts one of his
chapters with that very argument, and I think it concisely captures the entire
essence of his wildly important book. Sleep can drastically improve our lives
and our society, but for some reason it’s often neglected, or in some cases even
vilified and improperly cast as a sign of weakness or laziness.

It’s strange because unlike the other 2 other pillars of good health --exercise
and eating healthy foods--sleep is actually super enjoyable. Personally, while
my lazy self might dread getting on a treadmill or eating that kale salad, I
actively crave and thoroughly enjoy sleep.

Despite enjoying it, the reason I’ve failed to get enough sleep is
because I’ve never fully understood the true importance of sleep.

For example, I had no idea while you’re sleeping, your brain transfer short-term
memories from the hippocampus to the neocortex to be stored as long-term
memories. Or that the brain flushes out toxins during sleep, including toxic
proteins called amyloid proteins that have been strongly linked to Alzheimer’s
disease.

Instead, I think I’ve always imagined sleep as a recharging of batteries, where
as long as you can regenerate some level of energy so that you’re not at 0, then
you’re ultimately okay. I've always heard the common recommendations that you
should be getting 8 hours of sleep, but I’ve always thought of that recommended
8 hours as the amount necessary to get back to 100%.

Walker’s book has dispelled my misconceptions and reoriented me to understand
that instead of functioning simply as a source of energy, sleep is actually the
bedrock of good health, stable mood, and peak cognitive performance. Choosing to
not get the full amount of sleep that your body requires on a consistent basis
(8 hours for the overwhelming majority of the population) is the same as
choosing to not be your best self.
